---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - First Attempt At Collaborating?
---

#### In Class Git Activity 
Having previous git experience, I went into the Git activity thinking that it would be a easy but sadly that was not the case. In my group, I was the first person to make push any chances, so I didn't encounter any changes. But as time went on, everytime I tried to push a change, I was met with the following error :

*hint: Updates were rejected because the tip of your current branch is behind its remote counterpart. Integrate the remote changes (e.g. git pull ...') before pushing again. See the 'Note about fast-forwards' in 'git push --help' for details.*

I was able to resolve these conflicts by pulling from master, merging the changes, then pushing my changes. Overall, this wass a great opportunity to relearn git basics and work with my fellow classmates.

#### On Line Readings
Out of the assigned readings for this week, Shubheksha's [A Beginner’s Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source] was the one that had a profound impact on me. The author effortlessly captures the feeling of being a beginner in a unfamilar enviorment. It's common to take the easy way out by completing tasks that are simple and require no external help but that doesn't help anyone grow. The point of open source is to **collaborate** with strangers and make a meaningful impact while improving your skillset. 
It's unfortunate that Shubheksha was met with pushback, when they finally felt comfortable asking for help and as a result "the world of open source felt like a closed enviornment". 
A community built on sharing should be more welcoming to beginners and encourage their contibution because after all the only way to learn is by asking questions and contributing. From Shubheksha's experience, I learned the importance of asking questions and not being afraid to ask for help when something is unclear.

Overall, the article does a great job at pointing out the flaws within the open source community and providing useful advice for beginniers interested in contributing.


#### Blog Editing Activity
For this assignment, I started by looking for a classmates blog which didn't have any issues. Once I found one, I read through the blog posts, looking for spelling/grammar mistakes or ways to improve the blog post. After finding an issue, I opened an [issue] on their repo and got to work. The first step in fixing the issues, was to fork their repo and clone a copy to my local machine. After opening their blog post in the editor of my choice, I fixed the issues and made a commit. Upon reading the instructions for this activity, I noticed that each issue should have had their own commit. Realizing my mistake, I deleted the fork and repeated this process, correctly this time. In the past, I've noticed that I have the tendency to group multiple changes into one commit rather than making separate ones. In the future, I'll be more mindful of this and I hope we'll learn how to revert a commit in class. Next, I pushed the changes to my fork and made a [pull request]. This produce was alot simpler than the one we discussed in class since we were not worrying about merge conflicts and after making the pull request, we didn't have to pull again to ensure that our fork was up to date.

![handshake gif]


[handshake gif]: https://i.imgur.com/gYRdIJy.gif
[A Beginner’s Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source]:https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39/
[issue]: https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/kbarias-weekly/issues/4
[pull request]: https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/kbarias-weekly/pull/7
