---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - 
---

For this weeks blog, I’ll discuss the project evaluation process, what I learned and give an update on some ways I contributed outside of class.

#### Gatsby
The goal of this weeks class was to take a project and evaluate it in teams using this [template]. The project we chose, [Gatsby], is an open source framework based on React that helps developers build blazing fast websites and apps. Our approach in completing this activity was to split up the sections and I was responsible for finding information relating to their license, documentation and welcomeness. When I was looking for projects [last week], I focused on the technical aspects such as the languages being used and the types of issues being opened. This activity was a great way for me to look at open source projects through the community lens. While doing this activity, I learned that Gatsby is an active community where issues and pull requests are being made every day. Looking through the issues, I noticed that every question was answered in a timely manner and maintainers would provide suggestions on how to address the problem. On Gatsby's website, they have a comprehensive contributing guide which gives guidance on all types of contributions. In addition, they created an issue to encourage first-timers to contribute for [HacktoberFest] and included a list of sample contributions.

Looking at the pull requests, I noticed that after a pull request has been approved, the maintainers thank the contributors, offer to send them Gatsby sway and invite them to join the team of maintainers. I have yet to see another project with such a welcoming and friendly community. Gatsby is a tool that I will use in my everyday life and I am strongly considering it as a project for my first contribution.


#### Evergreen
For the next project evaluation, we had to do it individually. After coming across this [list] of react open source projects, I opted to pick one that I was unfamiliar with. [Evergreen] is a React UI Framework which contains a set of polished React components that work out of the box.

Looking at the pull requests, I noticed that some had been opened since August and were in danger of being closed by the project's bots due to inactivity. In addition, after a pull request had been approved, there was no comment from from the maintainer thanking the contributor for their efforts. Overall, this isn't the right project for a beginner. There is a lack of community and gratitude from the maintainers and their contributing document isn't detailed enough. 

#### Outside Of The Classroom
I wanted to dedicate some time this week to making contributions for [HacktoberFest]. Using the list of projects, I discovered last week, I set out to make some pull requests. At first I was a little nervous of making a mistake but the git workflow presentation and activity we did in class helped me tremendously. There were issues merging my first pull request, but the maintainer was extremely helpful. He asked me if I could make a new one and reviewed it within minutes. In addition to thanking me for the contribution, he provided me with links to other projects I could contribute to. Granted it was a small contribution, it felt so great to have my [pull request] accepted. The two pull requests I made involved me adding quotes to a json file. For my next contribution, I plan to have a more meaningful impact. Check back next week to what I contribute!


#### A Glance At My Week
1. Completed the [Project Evaluation Activity]
2. Intro To Git Workshop
3. [HacktoberFest]
4. 


<!-- LINKS -->
[Gatsby]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/
[Evergreen]: https://github.com/segmentio/evergreen

[last week]:https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/giocare-weekly/week06/

[pull request]: https://github.com/vinitshahdeo/inspirational-quotes/pull/340

[template]:https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/project-evaluation-activity-01/blob/fall19/evaluation_template.md
[Project Evaluation Activity]:https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/project-evaluation-activity-01

[list]:https://flatlogic.com/blog/best-react-open-source-projects/

[HacktoberFest]:https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/