---
layout: post
title: Week 14 - Time To Reflect?
---


##### Final Gatsby Update
Toby and I were able to complete our portfolio site, [Keturah] within our specified timeline. On Sunday, I submitted a pull request and luckily, it was accepted in time for my presentation! Following the merge of my pull request, I was invited to join the Gatsby organization of maintainers and offered Gatsby swag. After this semester, I plan to implement more features into the site and maintain it for future users. Overall, I had fun working on this project and it was a great opportunity to combine my different interests. But next time, I'd want to work on a contribution that allows me to interact with members of the Gatsby community.


<!-- This is the last blog post that you will write for this class. This is a chance to reflect on what you did. Go back to your first two blog posts. They asked you to write about 
    why you decided to take a course in open source software.
    what types of contributions you thought would be suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project, and
    what types of projects interest you and how you saw your relationship to them. -->

#### Reflecting
<!-- Did the course meet your expectations? What was different than you expected? How would you change what you wrote with respect to the last two questions (from Blog Post 2?) -->

At the beginning of this semester, I stated that I was interested in contributing to an open-source game or an open-source UI tool, intending to design a better user interface, helping to maintain a web site, or create graphics for an open-source project. While I was unable to work on those types of projects, I did get the chance to contribute something that will hopefully simplify the lives of developers.

Reflecting on this semester, my sense of responsibility as it relates to technology has certainly increased. Whenever I come across a bug, I'm quick to find out where I can report it, as well as making sure to document the steps needed to replicate the issue. This semester, I loved learning about the different aspects of open source, the GitHub workflow, and Linux. Having guest speakers provided additional insight into how open source is being used across businesses and non-profits. And writing these blogs has allowed me to find my voice, to the point where I want to continue writing when this class ends. I am grateful for the opportunity to have been able to take this class as well as make a meaningful contribution to an open-source project. This is not the end of my open source journey, it's just the beginning!

#### A Glance At My Week
1. Completed Second [Gatsby Contribution]
2. Gave A Presentation On My Gatsby Contributions


<!-- ![gif] -->

![gif]

<!-- L I N K S -->

[Gatsby Contribution]:https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/19998
[Keturah]:keturah.netlify.com/
[gif]:https://i.pinimg.com/originals/1c/2d/3d/1c2d3da0aedd5529bdc950b37770f428.gif