---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - GitHub WorkFlow?
---

#### Finding A Project
<<<<<<< HEAD
The article on finding a project to which you can contribute has a great amount of information and advice. It also has links to other webpages that help you in finding projects. Explore these links and comment on which might prove to be useful, and whether they have helped you to narrow down your search. The article on finding a project to which you can contribute has a great amount of information and advice. It also has links to other webpages that help you in finding projects. Explore these links and comment on which might prove to be useful, and whether they have helped you to narrow down your search.The article on finding a project to which you can contribute has a great amount of information and advice. It also has links to other webpages that help you in finding projects. Explore these links and comment on which might prove to be useful, and whether they have helped you to narrow down your search.
=======

The article on finding a project to which you can contribute has a great amount of information and advice. It also has links to other webpages that help you in finding projects. Explore these links and comment on which might prove to be useful, and whether they have helped you to narrow down your search. The article on finding a project to which you can contribute has a great amount of information and advice. It also has links to other webpages that help you in finding projects. Explore these links and comment on which might prove to be useful, and whether they have helped you to narrow down your search. The article on finding a project to which you can contribute has a great amount of information and advice. It also has links to other webpages that help you in finding projects. Explore these links and comment on which might prove to be useful, and whether they have helped you to narrow down your search.
>>>>>>> 08dd4d334a0964dd00ff0a47716932b2aa5e5c7f


#### Git + GitHub
Make some comments about all of this git and GitHub stuff you learned about this week. Hard? Easy? Confusing? Useful?


#### What I Did This Week
-> Assigned Reading

#### Gif
**`Add Gif Here`**
<<<<<<< HEAD

<!--- Links -->
[How To Contribute]:https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#finding-a-project-to-contribute-to
[Wikipedia for Karen Sandler]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Sandler
[Questions For Karen Sandler]:https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/class-wiki/wiki/Questions-for-Karen-Sandler
=======
This is a test
>>>>>>> 08dd4d334a0964dd00ff0a47716932b2aa5e5c7f
