---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Discussing Open-Source Concepts? 🕵️
---


<!-- Summarize your impressions about the Eric Raymond's The Cathedral and the Bazaar. In particular, what are the three concepts from that book that most impressed you? -->
For this weeks blog, I'll discuss some of my takeaways from Eric Raymond's [The Cathedral and the Bazaar] and give an update on my Gatsby project.

#### 🕵️ Concept #1 : The Cathedral vs The Bazaar
Of the concepts mentioned by Raymond, the one that most excites me is the cathedral vs the bazaar. To compare, a cathedral is carefully crafted by individual wizards or small bands of mages working in splendid isolation. But on the other hand, a bazaar is buzzing with people from different backgrounds who have different approaches to problems. After reading this, a couple of questions popped up:
1. in what scenarios would a cathedral style system be preferred or does that go against the principle of open source?
2. can the bazaar style work in other areas?


#### 🕵️ Concept #2 : The Importance of Having Users
Users are an underrated and essential component to having a successful open source project. At the beginning of the semester, it was mentioned that majority of the people who use open source softwares had limited programming experiences but were still able to contribute in meaningful ways. Reading the article, it was great to see Raymond reiterate this concept by mentioning that creating a loyal base encourages them to send bug issues and suggest fixes.

Interestingly enough, last week I noticed a bug in an app that I regularly use. So I immediately sent an email to the developer, detailing the issue and steps he would need to take to replicate the issue. Prior to this class, this is something I wouldn't have thought about doing.

#### 🕵️ Concept #3 : How Many Eyeballs Tame Complexity
The line that stood out to me in this section goes as follows "The underlying problem here is a mismatch between the tester's and the developer's mental models of the program; the tester, on the outside looking in, and the developer on the inside looking out. In closed-source development they're both stuck in these roles, and tend to talk past each other and find each other deeply frustrating." What a brilliant phrase! Raymond eloquently describes the complex relationship between testers and developers and then explains how open source software vastly improves this dynamic.

But I see this as more of an issue in the world of web development. I've always been a big advocate of making design a required class for programming students because design forces a developer to consistently think of the people who will you their product. And as a result, they are more likely to make a user friendly product which creates loyal users!! And as stated in concept 2, loyal users are very important!

As a developer, it's sometimes tricky trying to communicate your vision for a product with other people. Drawing from my own experience, I've created games with a story line in my head and a clear direction of how the user should play the game. But during the testing phase, I've learned that as a developer what I see is not always what the user sees. And that's the beauty of testing. 
Developing doesn't end when the code is written, that's just the beginning. Testing is opportunity to learn, to improve and to understand a user base.


#### Gatsby Update
<!-- Describe the project you chose to work on, why you have decided to work on it, and write about the progress you are making in selecting an issue that you want to fix in this project. -->
Last week I mentioned that I was interested in creating a starter theme because it is a great opportunity to combine my skills and great a meaningful product. I didn't many any substantial progress this week but I made an important modification to the plan below. Originally, I wanted to create a starter theme because the ones in the library were functional but not user friendly. In an effort, to not make the same mistakes, I plan on spending time writing down the issues I found in the other themes, reviewing user-experience principles and speaking with members of the Gatsby community. 
 

#### Starter Theme Plan
[ ✔️ ] Download Gatsby <br/>
[ ⚠️ ] Read Documentation And Get Familiar With Gatsby <br/>
[ ⚠️ ] Review Starter Library <br/>
[ ⚠️ ] Research UX Principles For Websites <br/>
[ ❌ ] Decide On What Type Of Theme I'd Like To Make <br/>
[ ❌ ] Sketch Out Theme <br/>
[ ❌ ] Prototype Theme Using Adobe XD <br/>
[ ❌ ] Begin Programming <br/>
[ ❌ ] Contribute Theme To Gatsby <br/>

#### A Glance At My Week
1. Finished In Class [Git Collaboration Workflow Activity]
2. Completed A Short Assessment on Git and Project Evaluation
3. Read [The Cathedral and the Bazaar]
4. Followed Along With [Merging And Rebase] Presentation


<!-- LINKS -->
[The Cathedral and the Bazaar]:http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html#catbmain
[Git Collaboration Workflow Activity]:https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/git-collaboration-workflow-activity
[Merging And Rebase]:http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/slides/git_merge_rebase.html#1