---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Debunking Open Source Myths? 🕵️
---

For this weeks blog, I'll discuss some of the myths and misconceptions surrounding the world of open source, as mentioned in this [article]. 

#### 🕵️ Myth #1 : Source Code ≠ Free
I'm still wrapping my head around the idea that just because the source code is available online, doesn't mean that the software itself has to be free. To me, I thought that making a profit defeated the purpose of what it means to be open source but the only rule of open source is that the source code needs to be available online. And this is where licenses come into play. Licenses vary by category as well as restrictions, and this is decided by the person who obtains the it. Depending on the license, a software may be modified and redistributed for a profit. In cases like that, I'm curious to know why a developer would willingly allow someone to reap the reward for a project they've dedicated some much time to.

#### 🕵️ Myth #2 : Programmers Only Club
As mentioned in [last weeks blog post], I originally thought that the only way to have a meaningful contribution to an open source project involved writing lines of code. But little things just as translating the program into another langage, writing documentation and reporting bugs are just as important. In addition, I thought that using open source software involved having to make modifications to the program in order to use it. But this is not the case. The majority of open source users do not have a single programming language in their skill set.

#### 🕵️ Myth #3 : Widespread Usage
Over the course of the past few weeks, I've come to the realization that I've been using open source software for years without knowing it. At first, I was shocked to learn that Firefox was an example of an open source project. I've had this image of open source software being a niche thing, that was only used by programmers. But I've learned that some of the most widely used softwares are open source and they are just as good as their proprietary counterpart. For example, React, Chromium, VLC, WordPress and Visual Studio Code.

By the end of this course, I'd like to become proprietary free by finding an open source counterpart for the programs that I use on a daily basis.



![typing gif]

[typing gif]: https://data.whicdn.com/images/164025190/original.gif

[article]:https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/
[last weeks blog post]: https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/giocare-weekly/week02/

