---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

### My First Contribution?

Prior to reading [How to Contribute to Open Source Without Coding], I thought that the only way to contribute to an open source project involved writing lines of code. It never occurred to me that other actions such as documentation, translating programs into various languages or submitting bug reports were equally valued. As a result, I started thinking about my interaction with various products 
and the qualities I deem to be important. To me, the design and usability of a product is just as important as the functionality. After all, what's the point of a product if no one knows how to use it?

Aside from being a coder, I'm a designer at heart and in my spare time I love to build websites and create mockups for applications. 
Combining my interests with my skillet, I'd like to design a better user interface, help maintain a web site, or create graphics for an open source project.

#### Types of Projects?

In terms of the types of projects, I'm stuck between an open source game and an open source UI tool. It's no secret that design is an important part of my life, so I'd like to be able to share that love with over designers to create a tool which simplifies the UI experience for developers. 

But on the other hand, I've turned to game design, in the past year, as a way to combine my interest for computer science with my passion for art. Having taken a course in Game Design, going to game jams (think hackathon but for games!!) and being a member of the E-Sports And Game Design club at Hunter, I've experienced what it's like to create a game with strangers who have varying skills. And I'd like to continue doing this.

Here is an example of a [game] I've made.



[How to Contribute to Open Source Without Coding]: https://icontribute.wordpress.com/how-to-contribute-to-open-source-without-coding/
[game]: https://lawrencecastillo.itch.io/timbys-pizza-run
