---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Open Source Evolution?
---

<!-- Write about the visit by Kevin Fleming. What did you learn? Contrast what he had to say about Bloomberg LP's involvement with what Bill Reyner described about FactSet's involvement. -->
#### Kevin Fleming
This week, Kevin Fleming, a member of the CTO Office at Bloomberg, visited the class to share how Bloomberg is involved in open-source projects. Of the topics Fleming mentioned, here are the two that stood out to me:

- Bloomberg is heavily involved in Jupyter, an open-source web application that allows you to create and share documents that contain live code, equations, visualizations, and narrative text. One of Bloomberg's contributions involved making the Jupyter Notebook user-friendly and this was conducted through the Project Jupyter UX Design session. I was fascinated to hear about the exercises conducted, learn discoveries made and see the final product. Fleming mentioned a card exercise, which allows users to explicitly show what tasks in the menu are vital so that they won't be buried so far in the menu bar. This is the kind of contribution I'd like to make in the future! In addition, while doing research, I discovered that two Bloomberg employees are members of Jupyter's [Steering Council], which is a collective created to ensure the long-term well-being of the project, both technically and as a community. That's awesome!

- Bloomberg regularly hosts Open Source Day/Weekend events with the purpose of encouraging employees, community members, and students to contribute to open-source projects.

In relation to the [Makers and Takers] article I discussed last week, I would classify Bloomberg and FactSet as Takers, but on different levels. FactSet actively encourages its employees to spend time contributing to projects and makes their clients aware of the open-source software being used. Bloomberg, on the other hand, does this to a much higher degree. They are not only using open-source software, but they are also investing back into it through the use of community events. This, in turn, helps open-source projects become sustainable.

Overall, after hearing Bill Reyner and Kevin Fleming talk about how important open-source software is to their companies, I will make a more conscious effort to use products from companies that are giving back to the community.

<!-- Discuss the significance -->
#### System76 - Coreboot
Prior to reading Don Watkin's article [System76 Coreboot], I never knew that open hardware existed or that there was a community surrounding it. Similar to open-source, the source code for open hardware is available for modification by anyone depending on the license. And I find the idea of open hardware to be exciting and yet terrifying. 

In [Open Source Firmware], Jessie Frazelle begins by describing what firmware is, the consequences that occur when its exploited and overall stating why open-source firmware is a necessity. Of the things mentioned, the sentence that jumped out to me is "The code that runs with the most privilege has the least visibility". It's scary to realize that such an essential and vulnerable part of our device is wrapped in a black box, utterly hidden from the grasp of its users.

<!--Continue to chronicle your progress on the issue(s) you are working on. -->
#### Gatsby Update
Moving forward, I will be working with [Toby] to develop two starter themes for Gatsby. Last week I spent time looking through the starter themes and making a list of issues I found. While doing this I noticed that most of the portfolios were photography based and developers interested in using them would have a difficult time showcasing their project.
For my theme, I will be making a portfolio site for developers. Hopefully, some of my classmates will use it for their own site as they apply for internships and full-time roles. This week, I came up with a sketch of the portfolio site as well as a list of features for it. My goal for the end of this week is to begin prototyping using Figma and begin coding.

#### A Glance At My Week
1. Guest Speaker Kevin Fleming Visited the Class
2. Continued [Unix] Tutorial In Class
3. Read [System76 Coreboot] and [Open Firmware]
4. Made Two Wikipedia Contributions

<!-- L I N K S -->
[Steering Council]:https://jupyter.org/about
[Makers and Takers]:https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source

[System76 Coreboot]:https://opensource.com/article/19/11/coreboot-system76-laptops?utm_campaign=intrel
[Open Firmware]:https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2019/10/239673-open-source-firmware/fulltext

[Toby]: https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/tobyau-weekly/
[Unix]:http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/slides/bash_tutorial_01.html#1
