---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - My Project Plan?
---


#### Project Selection
<!-- Chronicle your activities related to the project on which you are going to work. What did you do to install the development environment? What issues are you considering? How are you filtering them? What are you reading? In general, write about the work you are doing on your project. -->
After last week's [project evaluation], I decided to pick [Gatsby] as the project I'll be contributing to for the remainder of the semester. Aside from having a friendly community, this is a tool that I see myself using in the near future and I would love to have a hand in making it better. Looking at the issues, a few of the beginner ones were related to documentation and the creation of articles for the website. This is a great starting point to get my feet wet and learn more about Gatsby in the process.

Ultimately, I am interested in contributing to the [starter library], which is a collection of boilerplate Gatsby sites maintained by the community and intended for jump-starting development quickly. While browsing the starter library, I noticed that most of the starter libraries were functional but the aesthetic vision was missing and overall it wasn't user friendly. 

Creating a starter theme gives me the opportunity to combine my UI, UX and programming skills while creating a meaningful product that will be used by Gatsby consumers. And since Gatsby already has section in their [contributing guide] which outlines how to contribute to the starter library, all that's left is for me to get started.

#### Starter Theme Plan
[ ✔️ ] Download Gatsby <br/>
[ ⚠️ ] Read Documentation And Get Familiar With Gatsby <br/>
[ ❌ ] Decide On What Type Of Theme I'd Like To Make <br/>
[ ❌ ] Sketch Out Theme <br/>
[ ❌ ] Prototype Theme Using Adobe XD <br/>
[ ❌ ] Begin Programming <br/>
[ ❌ ] Contribute Theme To Gatsby <br/>



#### Guest Speaker
<!-- Write about the visit by Bill Reyner. And do not forget to update your Contribution pages and summarize your weekly work.-->
This week, Bill Reyner, the Associate Director and Vice President at FactSet, visited the class to talk about open source from the business side. Initially, I thought the talk would be about how to profit from open source and I was completely blown away. 

Reyner began by introducing himself, and sharing his journey at FactSet. He then went on to explain how his company is using open source everyday, the incentives for employees who do so and how they are making their software available to the public!!his past summer, I was fortunate enough to intern at Accenture and I will be returning as a fulltime employee next fall. During my summer, I was placed on a client site and went through extreme measures to keep my clients data safe. So, I appreciated that Reyner mentioned the risks in using open source and the measures being taken to inform clients about their open source policy.

After his talk, I started wondering whether Accenture has an open source policy. And after a quick google search I found that Accenture uses open source softwares to develop solutions for their clients and is actively [contributing to the open source community]. That's great to know!
- will be working at accenture and curious to know what their open source policy is


#### A Glance At My Week
1. Guest Speaker [Bill Reyner] visited the class
2. Looked For Gatsby Issues To Work On
3. Read Chapter 3 of [Pro Git]

<!-- LINKS -->
[project evaluation]:https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/giocare-weekly/week07/
[Gatsby]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/
[starter library]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/starters/
[contributing guide]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/submit-to-starter-library/
[contributing to the open source community]: https://accenture.github.io/